Welcome back.
In this video we're going to be discussing the keyword we saw in the past video that the Konski word
is useful for creating variables that we do not want to redeclare again.
So what about let what does it do.
The key word creates a brand new kind of scope for us in javascript called block scope to review before
2015.
There were two kinds of scopes global function scope variables defined in the global scope could be
used everywhere and variables defined in functions using the Vark P-word could only be used inside the
function they were defined in.
So what exactly is a block in javascript.
There are quite a few keywords in javascript which create blocks for us.
Some of them include if for while.
Do try and catch and when we use the Lechi word inside of those blocks we can create our own kind of
scope.
Let's see what that looks like.
I'm going to make a variable called instructor and assign it to the string.
Ellie I'll then check to see if the value of instructor is the string L.E..
And if it is all declare a variable called Fun fact using the let you work.
If I try to access this variable outside of the if statement I will get a reference are stating that
fun fact is not defined.
Another gotcha with the left keyword is that when it is used inside of functions it does not behave
the same way as the VAR keyword in javascript.
There is a term we use called hoisting to explain the behavior of what the VAR keyword does.
The idea behind hoisting is the variables defined using the marquee word will have their variable declarations
lifted to the top of the scope that they are at.
Let's illustrate this with an example of create a function called Hello instructor an inside first return
of variable named Ellie on the next line.
I will use the marquee word to create a variable called L-E and assign it to the string.
You might think that when we invoke this function we will get a reference error.
Since we are trying to return something for it is defined.
However javascript under the hood hoist variable declarations just the VAR L.A. portion to the top of
this function.
And since the value of the variable is undefined dysfunction will return undefined like keyword hoist
as well.
But we do not have access to its value and get a reference error even though it has hoisting.
It is in what's called a temporal dead zone or PDZ which is a place where variables are declared.
We cannot access their values so you may be wondering when should we use LET.
With Konst it makes sense that there is data you do not want to redeclare.
But what about the left keyword.
Some javascript developers will replace the VAR keyword wherever possible with LET.
But this is a bit of an extreme to start when you're working inside of a block and do not want variables
defined inside of that block to be accessible outside.
Use the keyword.
You may be wondering when this would be useful.
So let's look at a very common problem that solves for us easily.
I'm going to make a loop starting from zero and looping until it is less than 5.
I'm going to write a set time out to print out all the values from 0 to 4 in 1000 milliseconds or 1
second.
So I'm expecting my code to print out zero through 4 after 1 second.
However when I run this I will see that the number 5 is cancelled out logged 5 times.
Why is that.
The answer is that by the time the set time runs the for loop has already finished running and the value
of I has been incremented to 5 and the loop has stopped.
Only then does my set time out run and it prints out whatever the value of i is at the time before the
left.
You are the solution to this was to run another function inside of the loop and invoke it immediately
so that each set time out would have its own value.
However we can use the keyword to make things much easier if we replace var with LET.
Everything just works.
Let allows us to declare variables that are limited in scope to the block in which it is used and a
new variable is created for each iteration in the loop.
This is unlike the marquee word which defines a variable globality.
A couple of notes about let a Lekki word will hoist to the top of a block.
However referencing that variable in the block before the variable declaration results in a reference
are the variable is in a temporal dead zone from the start of the block.
Until the declaration is processed we also cannot redefine a variable using the left keyword.
Once again in the next section we'll practice a bit using left and Konst.
Good luck.